Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we'll be talking about eevee's render settings.
So at the moment we've told blender that certainly the pins and the bowls aren't very rough they should
be shiny and reflective.
However when we look at the scene even though they look shiny they're not really reflecting anything
at the moment.
However what we can do is turn those reflections on and you may notice that looks a ton better than
how it did before with these reflecting their surroundings as well.
It makes for a much more convincing scene however of course this is a feature that needs to be turned
on and therefore has a bit more of a performance impact.
Let's find out more.
OK everybody so looking at the scene in front of us here we have everything almost set up how we want
to be in in fact we can get those reflections by just one tick box.
But I want to delve in a little bit deeper at this point in time and talk to you a little bit about
how eevee is working in the background the reason why it's so quick compared to some other rendering
techniques is because it cuts a lot of things out is rather biased in what it shows us.
And it set some hard limits.
So if we have a look under the render tab itself and scroll down we see we've got a list of various
options we've already had a look at the shadows and we can see that we can adjust the shadow settings
themselves in order to create a sharper shadow, a less sharp shadow and we've already discussed how that
can impact performance.
The same is true of everything else on this list now because we've said that these things are reflective.
That doesn't automatically mean that eevee is going to show us reflections.
That is something that we need to turn on and if we go down to something called screen space reflections
and puts a tick in the box boom we suddenly get reflections.
Pretty cool hey.
Is that all we need to do.
Well you may want to go in a little bit further and tweak some of these settings.
I won't go into the details at this point as to what all of those mean sometimes you just have to adjust
them on the, on the scene you've got in front of you remember to have a look at it from the camera view.
So half res trace is one of those optimizations if we turn that off the reflections themselves will
get sharper and more precise.
However at the cost of it taking slightly longer to render.
In fact if you turn everything on it ends up slowing down quite significantly to how you started.
But it gives us a good approximation we can turn that back off again continue working but we've set
everything up including how rough our materials are based upon not seeing any reflections and that may
mean that we need to take another look at our materials so if we go to a bowling ball for instance and
have a look at the material properties for it.
Now we start to see the real impact if I hold down shift here to control the roughness much slower I
can turn up the reflection so this ball is incredibly glossy and then I can turn that down make it rougher
and rougher and rougher until eventually we can't see the reflections anymore.
Now this is something that with those reflections turned on we get a much better grasp of how the ball
is really looking.
And in fact in this particular case I would quite like it to be all the way down probably around point
nought five or so.
It's a much better reflection.
The other thing that I'll point out here and it's specific to the scene that we're working on is currently
we're using a different material than we are on this layout over here.
So that's something to bear in mind if we want to standardise on these materials we can actually do
that without too much impact on the models themselves.
If we go back to the Smash scene the one that we're working on.
I can literally switch the material out for the original ball.
What that will mean is then we have two users of the ball material and looking back we've got a zero
on our ball.
So we go ahead and save our file and then revert, turn it back to rendered mode.
You may find it takes a few seconds to update or you need to move the viewport but then we find the
extra material is gone.
What we don't want is a series of duplicate materials everywhere.
If we can avoid it because that makes management very very difficult.
So let's hop back to the rest of these eevee options.
So we've got ambient occlusion which is a way of faking where contact shadows would be so if we added
that in as well we see it has a very subtle effect especially around the base of our objects.
Now we've not really got any grooves or anything like that which would really show off ambient occlusion
but actually just turning it on makes a subtle difference to the bottom so much so even though it is
subtle.
I'm going to leave it on.
We've also got effects like bloom which on this scene which is already quite bright isn't going to add
that much to it.
However it can add especially to night time scenes where you'd naturally have a halo of light around
a light source itself, Depth of field is really cool we're have a look about in the next section making
things blurry
that are further away from the object we're focusing on , Subsurface scattering, We're not looking at that
at the moment but we will do later on in the course, We have motion blur.
Well nothing's really moving at the moment.
So adding motion blur isn't going to really do much for us.
And finally volumetric we don't have any volumemetrics in our scene volumemetrics are things like
smoke and fog.
If that's not turned on you won't see it.
So that's one of the things to watch out for.
And then we've got a few other options as well and we'll explore these more as we progressed through
the course.
But there you go eevee itself is quite a heavily biased render engine.
It will decide by these tick boxes here what it's going to show you and what it's not, what it's going
to calculate how well it's going to calculate it and there are some limits on that with cycles for instance
we can switch across the cycles and let that render out the switch to my GPU so it's going to be quicker.
And whilst this is rendering out you will see that it gets less and less noisy around the edges but
this is a completly, Well it's not completely unbiased but it is quite unbiased which means we get a much
more realistic reflection.
In fact if I scroll down a little and on the viewport samples is only gone to 32.
If I set a zero whilst on talking to you we will find that over time it will sample more and more and
more and the lighting and reflections will only get more and more accurate.
Unfortunately when your scene starts to get a bit heavy you can see just moving around here at the moment
like this you can't really see what's going on.
And if you've got a semi slow machine you may find that leaving it to render out so you get a better
impression takes just too long and that's where eevee really shines.
But the one big thing between cycles and eevee,
whereas cycles you can pretty much click and let it render
eevee you do have to work on and you will also find at the moment at least the lighting between eevee and
cycles isn't that consistent, cycles often ends up a lot darker than eevee does.
I'm gonna switch back to eevee now and I'm happy with my scene how it's set up however now it's time
for your challenge.
Okay so your challenge I'd like you to go ahead if you haven't done already and turn on screen space
reflections and I'm sure you'll agree with me the difference it makes to your scene is fantastic, it
looks a lot better especially since bowling alleys the bowling ball and the pins are often quite reflective
and shiny.
This really does add to it.
I'd like you to try ambient occlusion as well.
I think it adds even though it's subtle it adds a lot to the scene itself.
I would then like you to also check for duplicate or redundant materials and remove them from your scene.
It's important that either have a build up of redundant information it's just going to cause you a headache
later on it's best just to make sure that you tidy up as you go we've made duplicate objects which in
turn has made duplicate materials we actually want them to share those materials to go ahead and remove
those redundant materials from the scene and then finally render out your work and share it with us.
I'd love to see how you guys are getting on. Pause the video now and give that a go
Okay everybody, Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and fix up our scene and turn on screen space reflections. Okay so this is where we left
off before.
I'm going to go on and turn screen space reflections on straight away.
I'm going to leave off half ray trace for the moment.
I think it adds enough of a difference to be worthwhile.
I'm going to turn on ambient occlusion as well.
Just that slight darkening around contact points is really adding to it.
Now you can come in here of course and up the distance if you want the trace precision we could have
that turned up as well.
It's entirely up to you.
I think leaving it as default is absolutely fine.
I can't remember what that default value was I'm going to right click and reset the default value.
There we go.
So I'm happy with those settings now I don't think there's anything else I would want to turn on or
tweak.
Now that we've got that turned on.
OK.
So our bowling ball itself.
Let's have a look at the material that that is using that is using the ball we've already changed that
the pins.
Were they using pin 0 0 1 and pin striped 001.
Well I'm going to switch those out to pin and pin stripe.
There we go.
The alley way.
I'm going to switch out alley and what we should see is that we end up with zeros next to the ones that
we've finished sorting out.
So we've not finished the pin stripe or the pin.
Why is that.
Well if we have a look at this particular pin here it is using the correct ones but these others have
not inherited it.
So what we can do is select all of these others in whatever way that you want to select them.
I want to get rid of the back there make sure that this last one is the active select and if you cast your
mind back we can make links with control and L to materials.
Now we should find that everything has inherited the correct materials and we have a zero next the pinstripe
and pin which we do.
So I'm happy that we've got everything sorted there, I'm going to save my file I'm then going to revert
now it is important
you check in a Windows system,
The star has gone from up there so make sure you have saved before you do anything like reverting.
I'm simply reverting here to make sure that they have gone and they have.
OK so we've got lots of users of the same material that's absolutely fine.
And I'm also going to tweak some of the materials here so the board is certainly sharing the right material
now.
But do I want it a little more glossy.
I think I do.
How about the pins themselves.
You see this is this is what you're now able to do do I want them more or less glossy.
Well we're talking about just the stripes there.
So let's go to the pin material itself and also play with that so we can make them a lot more matt or
we can make them highly glossy.
I'm going to go to about one point one 5 which is roughly where we were before the final one is the
floor here so we can also make that glossy as well.
I think that really does bring it out.
Now one of the things that you may have found already is that darker materials show reflections better.
So if we were to go ahead and make this floor a much darker color.
So if we go to the base color here and just turn it down so it's darker.
You will see reflections much more easily than you did before.
So that's something to bear in mind.
The darker your surface the easier it will be to see reflections.
So I'm going to make mine a darker color of brown.
Or maybe that color around there reddy, a reddy sort of orangey brown a yellowy color.
There we go.
Perhaps mustard is a good term for that.
And then we've got everything here so let's look through the camera.
I like the look of that.
I'm also going to move this now along the Y axis.
I'm just going to move it along.
It's going to pass through that backdrop there.
That's absolutely fine.
But what it does mean is that the background itself is not going to have this square cut off that it
had before.
It's going to have this lovely curve to it.
I like how that looks.
And of course you can see back towards the camera in the ball itself.
That's pretty awesome.
So the final thing to do there is save my work and go ahead and hit render.
And there we go.
That looks brilliant.
I hope you're really pleased with how yours is turned out as well.
I'm going to save mine here.
Smash with lighting and reflections.
There we go.
So if you're working on this you don't have to save everything as you go but it's a good idea to save
your end results.
I'm really happy with how that's turned out.
I hope you are happy with yours as well.
And I'll see you all in the next lecture.